README.md, before:

MapR practice (gradle)
======================
    $ git clone https://github.com/daggerok/mapr.git --depth=1
    $ cd mapr
    $ gradle clean :mr1:jar
    $ java -jar mr1/build/libs/mr1-1.0.jar mr1/src/test/resources/receipts.txt mr1/build/result
    $ cat mr1/build/result/part-r-00000 # check job result
    
now try with hadoop (download and run mapr vm sandbox):

    $ scp mr1/build/libs/mr1-1.0.jar user01@maprdemo:~/mr1.jar
    $ scp mr1/src/test/resources/receipts.txt user01@maprdemo:~/in1
    $ ssh user01@maprdemo
    $ hadoop jar mr1.jar in1 out1 # job should be done much faster)
    $ cat out1/part-r-00000 # check result

get more information about MapR here: https://www.mapr.com/

**note1**: you must configure needed mode in build.gradle for running tasks

1. to run job locally (ie: java -jar $jarFile) you must build **fat** jar file:

        $ gradle jatFar

2. to run job on mapr cluster (ie: hadoop jar $jarFile) you can use regular jar file:

        $ gradle jar
    
**note2**: you use windows and fatJar command fails with error:
    
    $ java -jar mr1/build/libs/mr1-1.0.jar <some_args>
    SEVERE: PriviledgedActionException as:$user cause:java.io.IOException: 
    Failed to set permissions of path: \tmp\hadoop-$user\mapred\staging\$user$someNumbers\.staging to 0700

*solution*: run it on unix:) use sandbox

**note3**: to build faster **use gradle as daemon**:

*unix:*

    $ touch ~/.gradle/gradle.properties && echo "org.gradle.daemon=true" >> ~/.gradle/gradle.properties

*windows:*

    $ if not exist "%HOMEPATH%/.gradle" mkdir "%HOMEPATH%/.gradle"
    $ echo org.gradle.daemon=true >> "%HOMEPATH%/.gradle/gradle.properties"

Commit message:

done university statistics (mr4) example

README.md, after:

MapR practice (gradle)
======================
    $ git clone https://github.com/daggerok/mapr.git --depth=1
    $ cd mapr
    $ gradle clean :mr1:jar
    $ java -jar mr1/build/libs/mr1-1.0.jar mr1/src/test/resources/receipts.txt mr1/build/result
    $ cat mr1/build/result/part-r-00000 # check job result
    
now try with hadoop (download and run mapr vm sandbox). copy target jar with data on maprdemo host and connect there via ssh:

    $ scp mr1/build/libs/mr1-1.0.jar user01@maprdemo:~/mr1.jar
    $ scp mr1/src/test/resources/receipts.txt user01@maprdemo:~/in1
    $ ssh user01@maprdemo
    $ hadoop jar mr1.jar in1 out1 # job should be done much faster)
    $ cat out1/part-r-00000 # check result

get more information about MapR here: https://www.mapr.com/

**remote debug**

1. copy target jar with data on maprdemo host and connect there via ssh
2. prepare remote debug configuration on you ide. for example, idea connects to the application started with arguments:

        -Xdebug -Xnoagent -Xrunjdwp:transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=5005

3. as fast as you can click run remote debug in your IDE right after you run java command with neede debug arguments on remote host:

        $ java -Xdebug -Xnoagent -Xrunjdwp:transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=n,address=5005 -jar mr1.jar in1 out1

**note1**: you must configure needed mode in build.gradle for running tasks

1. to run job locally (ie: java -jar $jarFile) you must build **fat** jar file:

        $ gradle jatFar

2. to run job on mapr cluster (ie: hadoop jar $jarFile) you can use regular jar file:

        $ gradle jar
    
**note2**: you use windows and fatJar command fails with error:
    
    $ java -jar mr1/build/libs/mr1-1.0.jar <some_args>
    SEVERE: PriviledgedActionException as:$user cause:java.io.IOException: 
    Failed to set permissions of path: \tmp\hadoop-$user\mapred\staging\$user$someNumbers\.staging to 0700

*solution*: run it on unix:) use sandbox

**note3**: to build faster **use gradle as daemon**:

*unix:*

    $ touch ~/.gradle/gradle.properties && echo "org.gradle.daemon=true" >> ~/.gradle/gradle.properties

*windows:*

    $ if not exist "%HOMEPATH%/.gradle" mkdir "%HOMEPATH%/.gradle"
    $ echo org.gradle.daemon=true >> "%HOMEPATH%/.gradle/gradle.properties"
